Update deduplication docs (#258)
NVIDIA/NeMo-Curator: docs/user-guide/gpudeduplication.rst

For more information on when this is harmful, please see `Muennighoff et al., 2023 <https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.16264>`_ and `Tirumala et al., 2023 <https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.12284>`_.

=========================================
Exact Deduplication
=========================================

Exact deduplication refers to removing identical documents (i.e. document string are equal) from the dataset.

As exact deduplication requires significantly lesser compute, we typically will first run exact deduplication before fuzzy deduplication.
Also, from our experience in deduplicating Common Crawl snapshots, a significant portion (as high as ~40%) of the duplicates can be exact duplicates.

-----------------------------------------
How It Works
-----------------------------------------

Exact dedpulication works by hashing each document and only keeping one document per hash.
Finding exact duplicates works on both CPU and GPU based backends.

-----------------------------------------
Usage
-----------------------------------------

.. _exactdup_pyapi:

""""""""""""
Python API
""""""""""""

> .. note::

Author: Added an example for now. Ideally I think it makes sense to have a dedicated page for `AddID` and I can just reference link to that page instead.

    Before running Exact Deduplication ensure that the dataset contains a unique ID for each document.

>     If needed, you can use the :code:`add_id` module within the NeMo Curator to accomplish this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If needed, you can use the :code:`add_id` module within NeMo Curator to accomplish this.
```

    )

    duplicate_docs = ExactDups(dataset)

.. tip::
  A more comprehensive example, including how to remove documents from a corpus using the list of
  duplicate IDs generated from exact deduplication for the above can be found in `examples/exact_deduplication.py <https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Curator/blob/main/examples/exact_deduplication.py>`_.

""""""""""""
CLI Utility
""""""""""""
Assuming that a unique ID has been added to each document, users can proceed with finding exact duplicates
as follows:

* Find Exact Duplicates
    1. Input: Data directories
    2. Output: ``_exact_duplicates.parquet``. List of exact duplicates and the document hash.

.. code-block:: bash

        # same as `python nemo_curator/scripts/find_exact_duplicates.py`
         gpu_exact_dups \
           --input-data-dirs /path/to/jsonl/dir1 /path/to/jsonl/dir2 \
           --output-dir /path/to/output_dir \
           --input-json-text-field text_column_name \
           --input-json-id-field id_column_name \
           --log-dir ./
           # --scheduler-file /path/to/file.json

All CLI scripts are included in the :code:`nemo_curator/scripts/` subdirectory.

.. caution::

>     The CLI utilities are limited to Jsonl datasets and only work with GPU based backends.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The CLI utilities are limited to JSONL datasets and only work with GPU-based backends.
```

>     For different dataset formats or backeds use the :ref:`exactdup_pyapi`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For different dataset formats or backends use the :ref:`exactdup_pyapi`.
```
Also, where is `exactdup_pyapi` pointing to?

Author: It doesn't render on GitHub, but the final docs build will redirect to Python API section above: https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Curator/pull/258/files#diff-3d426f2a1cbd402015b9a962eea5aba3ccb0d60041076e42958705f64a7f8ca0R38

=========================================
Fuzzy Deduplication
=========================================

> When removing near-duplicates within the corpus we perform fuzzy deduplication at the document level in order to remove documents that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When removing near-duplicates within the corpus, we perform fuzzy deduplication at the document level in order to remove documents with
```

> have high Jaccard similarity. Our approach closely resembles the approach described in `Smith et al., 2020 <https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.11990>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
high Jaccard similarity scores. Our approach closely resembles the approach described in `Smith et al., 2020 <https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.11990>`_.
```

-----------------------------------------
How It Works
-----------------------------------------

This approach can essentially be split into the following stages:

1. **Compute Minhashes**: The first stage involves computing `MinHash <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MinHash>`_ Signatures on documents.

>    NeMo-Curator currently only supports character n-grams for MinHashing. An approximate metric of ~4.5 characters per word can be used to determine the n-gram size for users familiar with word based ngrams.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   NeMo Curator currently only supports character-based n-grams for MinHashing. An approximate metric of ~4.5 characters per word can be used to determine the n-gram size for users familiar with word-based ngrams.
```

2. **LSH** *(Locality Sensitive Hashing)*: Perform `LSH <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Locality-sensitive_hashing>`_

>    to find candidate duplucates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   to find candidate duplicates.
```

3. **Buckets to Edgelist**: If not using the false positive check, we directly convert the LSH buckets to edges for the connected components computation.

3. **False Positive Check** *(optional alternative to Buckets to Edgelist)*: Due to the approximate nature of the bucketing via MinHash + LSH

>    (`Leskovec et al., 2020 <http://infolab.stanford.edu/~ullman/mmds/ch3n.pdf>`_), NeMo-Curator provides the option to further

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   (`Leskovec et al., 2020 <http://infolab.stanford.edu/~ullman/mmds/ch3n.pdf>`_), NeMo Curator provides the option to further
```

>    process each of the buckets by computing some pariwise jaccard similarity scores between documents in each bucket and filter out false positives that might have been hashed into the same bucket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   process each of the buckets by computing some pairwise Jaccard similarity scores between documents in each bucket and filter out false positives that might have been hashed into the same bucket.
```

>   a. **Jaccard Map Buckets:** Since buckets generated by LSH can have high cardinality, we map multiple LSH buckets to a larger batches for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  a. **Jaccard Map Buckets:** Since buckets generated by LSH can have high cardinality, we map multiple LSH buckets to larger batches for
```

     efficient processing. Aditionally we assign a few documents (controlled via :code:`num_anchor_docs`) for each bucket to be candidate documents
     for pairwise Jaccard similarity computations within that bucket.
  b. **Jaccard Shuffle**: Store documents from the original dataset into new directories and files such that all documents in the same batch (bucket)

>      are stored together. This allows parallelizing pariwise Jaccard similarity computation across different buckets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     are stored together. This allows parallelizing pairwise Jaccard similarity computations across different buckets.
```

  c. **Jaccard Compute**: Compute Jaccard similarity scores between all pairs of documents in each bucket to the candidate anchor docs.

> 4. **Connected Components**: Due to the approximate nature of LSH documents that are near duplicates may be assigned different buckets with a few overlapping documents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **Connected Components**: Due to the approximate nature of LSH, documents that are near duplicates may be assigned into different buckets with a few overlapping documents
```

   between these buckets. We use a GPU accelerated connected components algorithm to find all connected components in the graph formed by the edges between documents in the same bucket.

> The result from Connected Components is a list of document ID's and the group they belong to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The result from the connected components step is a list of document IDs and the group they belong to.
```

All documents in the same group are considered near duplicates.
These results can be used to remove the near duplicates from the corpus.

-----------------------------------------
Usage
-----------------------------------------

.. _fuzzydup_pyapi:

""""""""""""
Python API
""""""""""""

> .. note::

Reviewer: Same complaint as before.

>     Before running Fuzzy Deduplication ensure that the dataset contains a unique ID for each document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Before running fuzzy deduplication, you need to ensure that the dataset contains a unique ID for each document.
```

>     If needed, you can use the ``add_id`` module within the NeMo Curator to accomplish this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If needed, you can use the ``add_id`` module within NeMo Curator to accomplish this.
```

  .. code-block:: python

    from nemo_curator import FuzzyDuplicatesConfig

    config = FuzzyDuplicatesConfig(
        cache_dir="/path/to/dedup_outputs",
        id_field="my_id",
        text_field="text",
        seed=42,
        char_ngrams=24,
        num_buckets=20,
        hashes_per_bucket=13,
        use_64_bit_hash=False,
        buckets_per_shuffle=2,
        false_positive_check=False,
    )

  b. Using a YAML file

  .. code-block:: yaml

    cache_dir: /path/to/dedup_outputs
    id_field: my_id
    text_field: text
    seed: 42
    char_ngrams: 24
    num_buckets: 20
    hashes_per_bucket: 13
    use_64_bit_hash: False
    buckets_per_shuffle: 2
    false_positive_check: False

  .. code-block:: python

      from nemo_curator import FuzzyDuplicatesConfig

      config = FuzzyDuplicatesConfig.from_yaml("/path/to/config.yaml")

2. Usage Post Configuration

.. code-block:: python

    from nemo_curator import FuzzyDuplicates
    from nemo_curator.datasets import DocumentDataset

    # Initialize the deduplication object
    FuzzyDups = FuzzyDuplicates(config=config, logger="./")

    dataset = DocumentDataset.read_json(
        input_files="/path/to/parquet/data",

>         backend="cudf",

Reviewer: Add a comment about alternatively setting `backend="pandas"` here?

    )

    duplicate_docs = FuzzyDups(dataset)

.. tip::

>   - A more comprehensive example for the above including how to remove documents from a corpus using the list of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - A more comprehensive example for the above, including how to remove documents from a corpus using the list of
```

>     duplicate IDs generated from fuzzy deduplication can be found in `examples/fuzzy_deduplication.py <https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Curator/blob/main/examples/fuzzy_deduplication.py>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    duplicate IDs generated from fuzzy deduplication, can be found in `examples/fuzzy_deduplication.py <https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Curator/blob/main/examples/fuzzy_deduplication.py>`_.
```

  - The default values of ``num_buckets`` and ``hashes_per_bucket`` are set to find documents with an approximately Jaccard similarity of 0.8 or above.
  - Higher ``buckets_per_shuffle`` values can lead to better performance but might lead to out of memory errors.
  - Setting the ``false_positive_check`` flag to ``False`` is ideal for optimal performance.
  - Clear the ``cache_dir`` between runs to avoid data from previous runs interfering with the current run's results.

""""""""""""
CLI Utility
""""""""""""

.. caution::
  Fuzzy deduplication CLI scripts only work with the specific ID format generated by the :code:`add_id` script. If the

>   dataset does not contain ID's in this format it's recommended to create them with the :code:`add_id` script as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  dataset does not contain IDs in this format, it is recommended to create them with the :code:`add_id` script as follows:
```

  .. code-block:: bash

    add_id \
      --id-field-name="my_id" \
      --input-data-dir=<Path to directory containing jsonl files> \
      --id-prefix="doc_prefix" \
      --log-dir=./log/add_id

>   This will create a new field named :code:`my_id` within each json document which will have the form "doc_prefix-000001".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This will create a new field named :code:`my_id` within each JSON document which will have the form "doc_prefix-000001".
```

  If the dataset already has a unique ID this step can be skipped.

> Once a unique ID has been added to each document, users can proceed with fuzzy deduplication which roughly require the following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a unique ID has been added to each document, users can proceed with fuzzy deduplication, which roughly require the following
```

steps (all scripts are included in the `nemo_curator/scripts/fuzzy_deduplication <https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo-Curator/blob/main/nemo_curator/scripts/fuzzy_deduplication>`_ subdirectory):

1. Compute Minhashes

>   - Input: Data Directories

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Input: Data directories
```

>   - Output: ``minhashes.parquet`` for each data dir.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Output: ``minhashes.parquet`` for each data directory
```

  - Example call:

       .. code-block:: bash

               # same as `python compute_minhashes.py`
               gpu_compute_minhashes \
                 --input-data-dirs /path/to/jsonl/dir1 /path/to/jsonl/dir2 \
                 --output-minhash-dir /path/to/output_minhashes \
                 --input-json-text-field text_column_name \
                 --input-json-id-field id_column_name \
                 --minhash-length number_of_hashes \
                 --char-ngram char_ngram_size \

>                  --hash-bytes 4(or 8 byte hashes) \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                 --hash-bytes 4 \ # or 8 byte hashes
```

                 --seed 42 \
                 --log-dir ./
                 # --scheduler-file /path/to/file.json

.. _fuzzydup_lsh:

2. Buckets (Minhash Buckets)
  - Input: Minhash directories
  - Output: ``_buckets.parquet``
  - Example call:

       .. code-block:: bash

               # same as `python minhash_lsh.py`
               minhash_buckets \
                 --input-data-dirs /path/to/output_minhashes/dir1 /path/to/output_minhashes/dir2 \
                 --output-bucket-dir /path/to/dedup_output \
                 --input-minhash-field _minhash_signature \
                 --input-json-id-field id_column_name \
                 --minhash-length number_of_hashes \
                 --num-bands num_bands \

>                  --buckets-per-shuffle 1 `#Value b/w [1-num_bands]. Higher is better but might lead to oom` \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                 --buckets-per-shuffle 1 \ # Value between [1-num_bands]. Higher is better but might lead to OOM
```

Author: Multi-line bash commands don't work with comment lines in between  unless the user manually deletes it or it's specified in the weird  \`#format\`. not sure if there's a better way

                 --log-dir ./
                 # --scheduler-file /path/to/file.json

> 3. False positive check (optional): If skipping this step, proceed to the :ref:`skip fp check section <fuzzydup_nofp>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. False Positive Check (optional): If skipping this step, proceed to the :ref:`skip fp check section <fuzzydup_nofp>`.
```
Also :ref:`skip fp check section <fuzzydup_nofp>` displays strangely?

Author: The final build skips below after `Jaccard Compute` to the `Buckets to Edgelist` section.

  a. Jaccard Map Buckets

>     - Input: ``_buckets.parquet`` + Data Dir

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Input: ``_buckets.parquet`` and data directories
```

    - Output: ``anchor_docs_with_bk.parquet``
    - Example call:

       .. code-block:: bash

               # same as `python map_buckets.py`
               jaccard_map_buckets \
                 --input-data-dirs /path/to/jsonl/dir1 /path/to/jsonl/dir2 \
                 --input-bucket-dir /path/to/dedup_output/_buckets.parquet \
                 --output-dir /path/to/dedup_output \
                 --input-json-text-field text_column_name \
                 --input-json-id-field id_column_name \
                 # --scheduler-file /path/to/file.json

  b. Jaccard Shuffle

>     - Input: ``anchor_docs_with_bk.parquet`` + Data Dir

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Input: ``anchor_docs_with_bk.parquet`` and data directories
```

    - Output: ``shuffled_docs.parquet``
    - Example call:

       .. code-block:: bash

               # same as `python jaccard_shuffle.py`
               jaccard_shuffle \
                 --input-data-dirs /path/to/jsonl/dir1 /path/to/jsonl/dir2 \
                 --input-bucket-mapping-dir /path/to/dedup_output/anchor_docs_with_bk.parquet \
                 --output-dir /path/to/dedup_output \
                 --input-json-text-field text_column_name \
                 --input-json-id-field id_column_name \
                 # --scheduler-file /path/to/file.json

>   c. Jaccard compute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  c. Jaccard Compute
```

    - Input: ``shuffled_docs.parquet``
    - Output: ``jaccard_similarity_results.parquet``
    - Example call:

       .. code-block:: bash

               # same as `python jaccard_compute.py`
               jaccard_compute \
                 --shuffled-docs-path /path/to/dedup_output/shuffled_docs.parquet \
                 --output-dir /path/to/dedup_output \
                 --ngram-size char_ngram_size_for_similarity \
                 # --scheduler-file /path/to/file.json

.. _fuzzydup_nofp:

> 3. Skipping the false positive check (more performant). Not needed if the false positive check was performed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Skipping the false positive check (more performant). This step is not needed if the false positive check was performed.
```

  a. Buckets to Edgelist
    - Input: ``_buckets.parquet``
    - Output: ``_edges.parquet``
    - Example call:

       .. code-block:: bash

               python buckets_to_edges.py \
                 --input-bucket-dir /path/to/dedup_output/_buckets.parquet \
                 --output-dir /path/to/dedup_output \
                 --input-json-id-field id_column_name
                 # --scheduler-file /path/to/file.json

4. Connected Components
  - Input: ``jaccard_similarity_results.parquet``
  - Output: ``connected_components.parquet``
  - Example call:

       .. code-block:: bash

               # same as `python connected_components.py`
               gpu_connected_component \
                 --jaccard-pairs-path /path/to/dedup_output/jaccard_similarity_results.parquet \
                 --output-dir /path/to/dedup_output \
                 --cache-dir /path/to/cc_cache \
                 --jaccard-threshold 0.8
                 # --scheduler-file /path/to/file.json

.. caution::

>   The CLI utilities are limited to Jsonl datasets, only work with specific ID formats.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The CLI utilities are limited to JSONL datasets and only work with specific ID formats.
```

>   For different dataset format use the :ref:`fuzzydup_pyapi`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  For different dataset formats, use the :ref:`fuzzydup_pyapi`.
```
Where does :ref:`fuzzydup_pyapi` point to?

Author: same as above

------------------------

> Incremental Fuzzy Dedup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Incremental Fuzzy Deduplication
```

------------------------

> * To incrementally perform fuzzy dedup we do not need to recompute minhashes for datasets where minhashes were already computed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To incrementally perform fuzzy deduplication, we do not need to recompute minhashes for datasets where minhashes were already computed.
```
Can you elaborate more on what "incrementally performing fuzzy deduplication" means?

Author: It refers to how fuzzy dedup must be performed if any new data is added to the corpus. For some stages like classification, we just need to apply to the new data. For deduplication, we don't need to recompute min hashes, but all subsequent steps need to be run on this new data in addition to the old datasets.

>   Organize your incremental datasets into separate directories and pass a list of all new directories to :code:`gpu_compute_minhashes`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Instead, you can organize your incremental datasets into separate directories and pass a list of all new directories to :code:`gpu_compute_minhashes`.
```

                 # --scheduler-file /path/to/file.json

  c. Jaccard Compute
    - Input: ``shuffled_docs.parquet``
    - Output: ``jaccard_similarity_results.parquet``
    - Example call:

       .. code-block:: bash

               # same as `python jaccard_compute.py`
               jaccard_compute \
                 --shuffled-docs-path /path/to/dedup_output/shuffled_docs.parquet \
                 --output-dir /path/to/dedup_output \
                 --ngram-size char_ngram_size_for_similarity \
                 # --scheduler-file /path/to/file.json

.. _fuzzydup_nofp:

3. Skipping the false positive check (more performant). This step is not needed if the false positive check was performed.

  a. Buckets to Edgelist
    - Input: ``_buckets.parquet``
    - Output: ``_edges.parquet``
    - Example call:

       .. code-block:: bash

               python buckets_to_edges.py \
                 --input-bucket-dir /path/to/dedup_output/_buckets.parquet \
                 --output-dir /path/to/dedup_output \
                 --input-json-id-field id_column_name
                 # --scheduler-file /path/to/file.json

4. Connected Components

>   - Input: ``jaccard_similarity_results.parquet``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Input: ``jaccard_similarity_results.parquet`` (if you ran the false positive check) or ``_edges.parquet`` (if you skipped the false positive check)
```
Sorry, one last thing. We should make sure to cover both cases.

  - Output: ``connected_components.parquet``
  - Example call:

       .. code-block:: bash

               # same as `python connected_components.py`
               gpu_connected_component \

>                  --jaccard-pairs-path /path/to/dedup_output/jaccard_similarity_results.parquet \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                 --jaccard-pairs-path /path/to/dedup_output/jaccard_similarity_results.parquet `#Or /path/to/dedup_output/_edges.parquet` \
```

                 --output-dir /path/to/dedup_output \
                 --cache-dir /path/to/cc_cache \
                 --jaccard-threshold 0.8
                 # --scheduler-file /path/to/file.json

.. caution::
  The CLI utilities are limited to JSONL datasets and only work with specific ID formats.
  For different dataset or ID formats, use the :ref:`fuzzydup_pyapi`.

------------------------
Incremental Fuzzy Deduplication
------------------------

> * To incrementally perform fuzzy deduplication, we do not need to recompute minhashes for datasets where minhashes were already computed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If any new data is added to the corpus, you will need to perform deduplication incrementally. To incrementally perform fuzzy deduplication, we do not need to recompute minhashes for datasets where minhashes were already computed.
```

                   --log-dir ./
                   # --scheduler-file /path/to/file.json

> All subsequent steps starting with :ref:`Buckets <fuzzydup_lsh>` can be executed on all the data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All subsequent steps, starting with :ref:`Buckets <fuzzydup_lsh>`, can be executed on all the data
```
Where does the link point to?

Author: Points back to the `2. Buckets (Minhash Buckets)` section of the CLI.

                   --log-dir ./
                   # --scheduler-file /path/to/file.json

All subsequent steps starting with :ref:`Buckets <fuzzydup_lsh>`, can be executed on all the data

> (old and incremental) as described above without modification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(old and new) as described above without modification.
```
